# Ease of use brms wrapper function for fitting growth models specified by `growthSS`

Helper function generally called from
[fitGrowth](https://danforthcenter.github.io/pcvr/reference/fitGrowth.md).

## Usage

``` r
fitGrowthbrms(
  ss,
  iter = 2000,
  cores = getOption("mc.cores", 1),
  chains = 4,
  prior = NULL,
  backend = "cmdstanr",
  silent = 0,
  ...
)

fitGrowthbrmsgam(
  ss,
  iter = 2000,
  cores = getOption("mc.cores", 1),
  chains = 4,
  prior = NULL,
  backend = "cmdstanr",
  silent = 0,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- ss:

  A list generated by `growthSS`.

- iter:

  A number of iterations to sample for each chain. By default half this
  length is taken as warm-up for the MCMC algorithm. This defaults to
  2000.

- cores:

  A number of cores to run in parallel. This defaults to 1 if the
  "mc.cores" option is not set. Generally this is specified as one core
  per chain so that the model is fit in parallel.

- chains:

  A number of markov chains to use, this defaults to 4.

- prior:

  A `brmsprior` object if `growthSS` did not have priors specified. If
  left NULL (the default) and ss does not contain priors then a warning
  is issued but the model will still attempt to fit.

- backend:

  A backend for brms to use Stan through. This defaults to use
  "cmdstanr".

- silent:

  Passed to
  [`brms::brm`](https://paulbuerkner.com/brms/reference/brm.html) to
  control verbosity. This defaults to 0, the most verbose option so that
  messages and progress are printed. With changes to `cmdstanr` and
  `brms` this may be removed, but the option will be available through
  `...`. Note that this is likely to print lots of messages during
  warmup iterations as the MCMC gets started.

- ...:

  Additional arguments passed to
  [`brms::brm`](https://paulbuerkner.com/brms/reference/brm.html).

## Value

A `brmsfit` object, see
[`` ?`brmsfit-class` ``](https://paulbuerkner.com/brms/reference/brmsfit-class.html)
for details.
